Licensing Docs: Adding license restrictions docs (#30216)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/license-restrictions.md

+++

> title = "License Restrictions"

Reviewer: Restrictions -> restrictions

description = "Grafana Enterprise license restrictions"
keywords = ["grafana", "licensing", "enterprise"]
weight = 8
+++

# License restrictions

Enterprise licenses are limited by the number of active users, a license expiration date, and the URL of the Grafana instance.

**User limits**

Grafana licenses allow a certain number of active users in an instance. An active user is any user that has signed in to Grafana within the past 30 days.

In the context of licensing, each user is classified as either a viewer or an editor, which are defined as follows:

- An editor is a user who has the ability to edit and save dashboards, which includes:

>     - Grafana server admins

Reviewer: Added period (.) because last list item needs one. Therefore, they all need one.

>     - Users assigned an Org role of "Editor" or "Admin," 

Reviewer: Added period (.) because last list item needs one. Therefore, they all need one.

>     - Users that have been granted "Admin" or "Edit" permissions through [dashboard/folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Users who have been granted `Admin` or `Edit` permissions. See [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).
```

Reviewer: Can a user be granted permissions another way? Line 21 seems quite dependent on the _how_. Does my change make this statement less accurate?

Author: Hm, I'm a bit hesitant about the suggested change. The above sentence in line 20 already talks about `Admin` and `Edit` roles in organisation level, so the intention of this sentence was to stress that the same applies if you give `Admin` or `Edit` permissions on dashboard/folder level and I thought referencing the docs will make it even more explicit. Maybe `through` is not the best word to use to stress that out, but I hope I was able to explain what I meant to say there.

Reviewer: Yes, "through" is off here. Hmm, how about ...

```suggestion
    - Users that have been granted "Admin" or "Edit" permissions at the dashboard or folder level. Refer to [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     
```

Author: Nice thanks! Applied the suggestion!

>     - Users that have been granted "Admin" or "Edit" permissions at the dashboard or folder level. Refer to [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Users that have been granted `Admin` or `Edit` permissions at the dashboard or folder level. Refer to [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     
```

Reviewer: Sorry, missed this one the second time around.

> - A viewer is a user with the Viewer role who does not have the permissions to save dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A viewer is a user with the `Viewer` role, which does not permit the user to save a dashboard.
```

Restrictions are applied separately for viewers and editors.

> When the number of maximum active viewers or editors is reached, a warning banner is displayed within Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the number of maximum active viewers or editors is reached, Grafana displays a warning banner.
```

**Expiration date**

> The license expiration date is the day when a license is no longer active. A banner will appear in Grafana Enterprise when the license expiration date approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The license expiration date is the date when a license is no longer active. As the license expiration date approaches, Grafana Enterprise displays a banner.
```

Technically, a date is 01, 02, 14, etc. and they day is Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, etc.

Reviewer: @oddlittlebird What is our convention for "is displayed" versus "appears"? Never mind, found it here: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md#display-verb

**License URL**

License URL is the root URL of your Grafana instance. The license will not work on an instance of Grafana with a different root URL.

## Updating license restrictions

> To increase the number of licensed users within Grafana, extend a license, or change your Licensed URL, contact [Grafana support](https://grafana.com/profile/org#support) or your Grafana Labs account team. They will update your license, and you can apply the updated license within Grafana following the [Activate a license process](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/activate-license/).

Reviewer: Licensed URL -> licensed URL

Reviewer: They will update your license, and you can apply the updated license within Grafana following the [Activate a license process](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/activate-license/). -> They will update your license, which you can activate from within Grafana. Refer to [Activate a license](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/activate-license/).

+++
title = "License restrictions"
description = "Grafana Enterprise license restrictions"
keywords = ["grafana", "licensing", "enterprise"]

> weight = 8

Reviewer 2: See previous comment.

+++

# License restrictions

Enterprise licenses are limited by the number of active users, a license expiration date, and the URL of the Grafana instance.

> **User limits**

Reviewer 2: All the bold text pretending to be headings should actually be headings.  That way they appear in the side menu.

> **User limits**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## User limits
```

Grafana licenses allow for a certain number of active users per instance. An active user is any user that has signed in to Grafana within the past 30 days.

In the context of licensing, each user is classified as either a viewer or an editor:

- An editor is a user who has permission to edit and save a dashboard. Examples of editors are as follows:
    - Grafana server administrators.

>     - Users who are assigned an organizational role of `Editor` or `Admin`.

Reviewer 2: Remove the code format in this list. The initial cap is sufficient.

>     - Users that have been granted `Admin` or `Edit` permissions at the dashboard or folder level. Refer to [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Users that have been granted Admin or Edit permissions at the dashboard or folder level. Refer to [Dashboard and folder permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/permissions/dashboard_folder_permissions/).     
```

> - A viewer is a user with the `Viewer` role, which does not permit the user to save a dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A viewer is a user with the Viewer role, which does not permit the user to save a dashboard.
```

Restrictions are applied separately for viewers and editors.

When the number of maximum active viewers or editors is reached, Grafana displays a warning banner.

> **Expiration date**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Expiration date
```

The license expiration date is the date when a license is no longer active. As the license expiration date approaches, Grafana Enterprise displays a banner.

> **License URL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## License URL
```

License URL is the root URL of your Grafana instance. The license will not work on an instance of Grafana with a different root URL.

> ## Dashboard and folder permissions report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Download a dashboard and folder permissions report
```

> This CSV report helps to identify users, teams, and roles that have been granted `Admin` or `Edit` permissions at the dashboard or folder level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This CSV report helps to identify users, teams, and roles that have been granted Admin or Edit permissions at the dashboard or folder level.
```

> To download the report (in CSV format) go to the **Server Admin** > **Licensing**. From the bottom of the page, select **Download report**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To download the report in CSV format:
1. Hover your cursor over the **Server Admin** (shield) icon in the side menu and then click **Licensing**.
1. AT the bottom of the page, click **Download report**.
```

Reviewer 2: Steps that need to be performed in a particular order should be an ordered list, not a paragraph.

Reviewer: Change AT to At on line 42.

> ## Updating license restrictions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Update license restrictions
```

> To increase the number of licensed users within Grafana, extend a license, or change your licensed URL, contact [Grafana support](https://grafana.com/profile/org#support) or your Grafana Labs account team. They will update your license, which you can activate from within Grafana. Refer to [Activate a license process](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/activate-license/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To increase the number of licensed users within Grafana, extend a license, or change your licensed URL, contact [Grafana support](https://grafana.com/profile/org#support) or your Grafana Labs account team. They will update your license, which you can activate from within Grafana. 

For instructions on how to activate your license once it is updated, refer to [Activate an Enterprise license](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/activate-license/).
```

Reviewer 2: Two things:
- The second link needs to be a relref to activate-license.md.
- The link text should exactly match the topic or heading that you are linking to whenever possible. Review the Grafana style guidelines on [Headings](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md#headings) for more guidance.

Reviewer: On line 42, change "once" to "after" to reserve the word _once_ for things that happen one time. Here, it really means _after_.
